# Astro-UI Docs Template

Each Component created within the Astro-ui monorepo needs to have its own accompanying set of documents to provide extra contextual information on the Component, addressing simple questions such as:

- What does it do?
- How it does it do it?
- When and Where to use it ?

These pages will have a shared Template, where FrontMatter tags are shared between the pages and their respective frontend Astro site.

## FrontMatter Template

This is the Template that would be placed at the top of the front-matter of each doc page.

```astro
---
title:
    page : ""
    api  : ""
    meta : ""
description: 
    page: ""
    meta: ""
page: 
    number   : 
    next     : ''
    previous : ''

---

```

### Explaining the Frontmatter 😱

There is a slight method to this madness. Content may be king, but context is what crowns it.

*For contextual matters*, we structure our *frontmatter* into a YAML style format where we denounce all syntax for white-spaces.

Below contains a breakdown of each field
### `title`

Titles are important to the overall context to the page. In most cases pages are provided a `document.title` element which fills in the information to the browser. This is also picked up on the Search Engines too. But in some-cases as with documenting XElement, we have a couple of additional contextual titles that we wish to present to the UI.

```YAML
    page : "document.title" 
    api  : "@title"
    meta : "Open Graph Title"
```
### `description` 

Page descriptions tend to be longer than their SEO driven counterparts. They are also addressing two seperate audiences.
The `meta` property is described only to search engines and the Open Graph protocol where it is provided as a short abstract of the site. In contrast to the `page` description. Here we are needing to provide a longer from summary that would be able to be displayed on the site itself. This `page` description would also be used when indexing the page and its contents.

```YAML
description: 
    page: "Longer Form Summary - Used on the Site"
    meta: "Short From Abstract - Used for OG & SEO"
```

### `page`

There are other related information that we need to pass through to the UI from the page, this involves the Page `number` in terms of its ordering in amongst other pages in the folder. `next` and `previous` page links that would be used to direct the page navigation's.

```yaml
page: 
    number   : 
    next     : ''
    previous : ''
```
------

## Writing Style guide

We aim to make the writing in these documents speak to the end-user as if they are friendly and seeking assistance. It is a firm believe that if you are to help, try not to be a hinderance. We have took this to the application of the writing style in for these Documentation pages which lie herein.

We write good english, for the sake of our readers. We try our best to write the content that is grammatically correct and concise. We accept that odd spelling and grammar mistakes will inevitably appear, all we ask is authors to be extra vigilant when it comes to writing content for the Documentation.

The narrative we project through the tonality of our words is not overly formal. There is a fine balance to talking to someone and talking at someone. We wish to only *help* our readers. This use of friendly warm encouragement is what we wish to express most when we are writing our content.

What else can I add, ah yes, make sure to dot the t's and cross the i's. If you have any doubts please don't hesitate to reach out, we would always be here to help out.

### Page Introduction

Lets introduce the content, short and sweet.

Here explain the background content that the reader needs before they proceeds through the rest of the page.

This introduction is the first *priming* stage for the reader, its where their cognitive and facultative processes are the most receptive. Don't seek to confuse them, merely introduce to them what the page is about, any relevant background knowledge that they need.

From here the reader should be able to understand or discern what the context of the page they are about to read contains. This helps to reduce the cognitive overhead that readers face when it comes to digesting technical documentation.

### Clear Titles

Titles convey more value than the text that follows.

When using titles to describe sequences of code do so in the following manner:

`property : type `

By displaying the type associated with the property we can inform the reader of the meta information that they need in order to be able to use the property properly and quickly. This helps to reduce the cognitive overhead for our readers

### Code Blocks

Code blocks should be written using the `lang='astro || tsx' ` preference. Since our code examples for XElement would be written in Astro, we leverage Prism in the UI to help provide syntax support.
 
### Articles

Always use `-----` to help break up the page into smaller articles. This segmenting of information allows you to help develop further on concepts and also help maintain readability and structure of the page.

### References

Any Links used to external sources should be suitably linked in the footnotes of the page, here we wish to provide our readers not to link away mid-sentence but to refer them at the end to the resource used in the body of the documentation afterwards.

## Next Steps

Readers need to be told what to do next, it helps prime them as we move between pages,
Here we begin by concluding what we have achieved on the page, then to inform them of what is coming up in the following page. This way their expectations are set and they are informed before hand.

## Footnotes

Any referenced material used within the page needs to be adequately referenced at the bottom of each page, we would use the APA standard for citations of websites and content material that is placed on the page. Along side any additional authors comments on top of the reference.